#summary How to get Traceur up and running on your machine.

= Getting Traceur =

You can pull the code down using Subversion or git (though git-svn). To get it using git-svn, do:

{{{
$ mkdir traceur # it won't create a dir for you
$ cd traceur
$ git svn clone -s https://traceur-compiler.googlecode.com/svn
}}}

We've seen a couple of 205 Bad Gateway errors sometimes. If you get that shake your fist at the sky in anger and try again. You'll know it's working when computer gets nice and warm and you see a bunch of text spew by. Once it's done, you've got it!

To see if everything works, try running the tests...

= Running the Tests =

Traceur has three kinds of tests: *unit tests* validate that various classes within Traceur do what they're supposed to do. *Feature tests* are small standalone chunks of Traceur code. The tests compile and run them, and validate that they do what they're supposed to. Finally, the *baseline tests* push a big pile of Javascript through Traceur (currently the Closure libraries) and validate that nothing gets broken in the process.

The feature tests are likely the most interesting. They show what kinds of extensions to Javascript we're prototyping, both what they look like and how they behave. If you want a quick introduction to what kinds of stuff we're trying, hunt through the `feature/` directory and see.

== From a Browser ==

=== Allowing File Access ===

Since the test scripts access other local files, you'll need to tweak your browser a bit to tell it you want to allow that before you can run the tests in a browser:

==== Configuring Chrome ====

You'll need to launch Chrome with an argument to let scripts load other scripts from disk: `--allow-file-access-from-files`. On Mac OS X, you can do this from the Terminal using:

{{{
$ /Applications/Google\ Chrome.app/Contents/MacOS/Google\ Chrome --allow-file-access-from-files &> /dev/null &
}}}

==== Configuring Firefox ====

To run this in Firefox you need to change a preference so that the scripts can load other files outside of their directory ([http://kb.mozillazine.org/Security.fileuri.strict_origin_policy strict_origin_policy]). To do that:

  # Navigate to `about:config`. (Accept the warning if shown.)
  # In the "Filter" box, enter: `security.fileuri.strict_origin_policy` and hit enter.
  # If it's value is currently `true`, double-click the result line to toggle it to `false`.

=== Running the Tests ===

Now that you've got your browser loosened up, open a test page. From the root of the Traceur repository, you can find them in:

  * Unit tests: `svn/test/alltests.html`
  * Feature tests: `svn/test/featuretests.html`

Click "Start" and hope for the delicious green bars of success.

== From the Command Line ==

We're working on supporting running the tests on [http://nodejs.org/ Node]. If you have Node installed, you can run the feature tests like this:

{{{
$ cd svn/test/ # Need to run from within test/ dir.
$ node testfeatures.js
}}}

== Compiling Your Own Code ==

*(TODO)*

== Running Traceur Code Directly ==

*(TODO)*